How effective is it training with rubber
bands to build strength? The answer is
not effective at all. I know some of you
are going to be surprised that I'm
saying something like that. Bands by
themselves are trash. You can't really
do anything with them. They're going to
twist your joints. They're going to hurt
you. And probably the most important
thing that you're missing when you're
training with bands by themselves is
you're not loading the bottom. You have
to load the bottom. That's where the
stimulus happens. The stretch position,
the all the way back position, you need
to have some force there because
ultimately as you do repetitions, let's
say I'm doing 20 repetitions on chest
press, I'm going to get to the point
where I shorten the repetitions because
I'm losing access to the muscle. A lot
of the cells are basically disqualifying
themselves from being part of the
contraction because they've been
exhausted. So, with variable resistance,
now this is a band plus a bar that keeps
my wrist straight. So, I'm pushing as
many times as I can. Now, I can go to
fatigue in diminishing range. So, I
might get in in my first set, I might
get five fatigue points in one set. So,
that gives me
potentially like this has been
marginally proven in uh Dr. Sean
Connley's research, but uh you get sort
of five times the stimulus in one set
that you would normally get with a with
a weight set, but that doesn't apply to
bands. It's because there's an apparatus
attached to the band so that you can
really load the bottom and get full
access to the power that the band has.
So when somebody says you can either do
great with bands or you can't do great
with bands, there's a it's not that
simple. It's are you using bands as a
part of a strategy to load the entire
full range of motion? If yes, then you
can do phenomenal. But that's not really
the question when someone says bands
bands suck.